[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: With your experience
with asynchronous programming,
how much gain do you see
potentially with proper tail calls?
>> Jafar Husain: In
asynchronous programming?
None, because just to explain briefly,
what he's talking about,
proper tail calls means if you have
a function, and you recursively call
that function, and it happens to be the
last thing you do inside of that function,
which is recursively call it again.
What is gonna happen in JavaScript 6
is that instead of growing the stack,
which is what happens if you usually,
if you call a function inside of itself in
recursion, instead of that's not growing,
in JavaScript 6, it'll basically turn that
into the equivalent of a loop, right?
Cuz that's what you're doing.
At the bottom of a function,
you just call that same function again.
It's like it's coming,
it's almost like you had a loop.
Does that make sense a little bit?
And it was hard without an example, but
the reason why it totally makes
no difference with asynchronous
programming is that whenever you do
something asynchronous in JavaScript,
what happens is that it gets
posted on to the event loop.
Who here knows what the event loop is?
Couple of people?
The way JavaScript works is it
actually has a list of like a queue of
functions to call.
And whenever you set,
who's used set timeout?
Whenever you do a set timeout,
what's actually happening under
the hood is it takes the function.
And what's a timeout is, by the way?
It's an API where you handed a callback
and a time, and then the JavaScript
environment invoke that callback after
a certain amount of time has elapsed.
What happens under the hood is the
JavaScript's got this big list of things
to do, and
that just takes that function and
adds it to the big list of things to do.
And eventually,
when JavaScript, a certain amount of time
goes by, it'll execute that function.
And then when that function completes,
it just moves to the next step
in its list of things to do.
Maybe that function that just
completes inside of it, and
maybe that function just ran,
schedule another timeout.
And that would post it down here
at the bottom of the queue and
a list of things for JavaScript to do.
My point is that if you're doing anything
asynchronous, it always just ends up
getting posted on to the list of things to
do, and so it's not really tail recurrent.
At that point, it's effectively as
if you're using tail recurrent,
because JavaScript's got this big loop of
just going through those things to do,
and so it's the equivalent
of using tail recursion.
My point here is that tail recursion
really doesn't have very much to do with
asynchronous programming.
Because if you are scheduling the next
function asynchronously, it's
like tail recursion, because it's gonna
get put in this big list of things to do,
and JavaScript has this big loop
where it's going through it.
So it's like tail recursion, cuz if you
take a recursive function and optimize it
into a loop, I'm just repeating
the same operation again and again.
So I think there may be
a slight confusion there.
Tail recursion, not really a win for
async programming.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 1: The next question was,
can takeUntil take multiple observables as
stop collection or
a collection of observables?
>> Jafar Husain: No,
actually, I'm not 100% sure.
It might actually be able to take
multiple collections as stop collections.
However, it doesn't matter, because you
can always go some source collection
.takeUntil some stop collection,
.takeUntil another stop collection,
.takeUntil another stop collection.
So composition solves this problem for us.
So anymore questions?
Great, so
now you guys know everything you need to
know to understand how this sample works.
At least at a high level,
a conceptual level, right?
We've got a function,
which accepts a DOM object.
And then all the mouseDowns,
and mouseMoves, and
mouseUp here were created
using observable.fromEvent.
That's the piece of code
I've left out of here.
Remember that piece of code that adapts
from a DOM event to an observable?
So the mouseMove, mouseDowns and
mouseUps on that DOM element were all
created using observable.fromEvent.
So we adopted already those
mouseMoves into observable objects.
So I can go back and quickly remind
you guys, right, it was this function.
So let's imagine that we took the DOM
event, and we actually called fromEvent
for a mouseDown and mouseMove and mouseUp,
and then we created the observable,
we took the observer that came back and
actually added it to the DOM event.
Now, instead of just talking about it,
I'll do it.
>> Jafar Husain: So first things first.
We create the mouseDown, mouseMove, and
mouseUp observable by adapting them
from the DOM elements event name.
We add those properties to the element
itself, and then that's where mouseDowns,
mouseMoves, and
mouseUps come from on the DOM element.
Does that make sense?
Is that clear?
Maybe not so much.
I can make this even simpler.
>> Jafar Husain: I was
trying to get clever there.
>> Jafar Husain: So the first thing we do
is we adapt from all of the DOM events on
this element.
Close one.
Still got me here?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
>> Jafar Husain: So
we adapt from all of the mouse events, the
DOM events, to an observable, and then we
just take the observable that's on there,
and we stick it on to the element itself.
And now that we've adopted the DOM event,
which is this weird adamant listener or
movement listener thing,
into a single first class object.
We can use these map filter
function to assemble
a new event from three source events.
So we're taking mouseDowns mouseMoves and
mouseUp, so
we're composing them
together into mouse drags.
And then at the bottom half of the slide,
all we're doing is almost a slight
syntax that I wanna fix here.
And now that I've created a function with
multiple lines, I need to add a return.
>> Jafar Husain: The arrow syntax,
if using the arrow syntax,
and you have to execute multiple lines
of code, you need to add a brace, and
you need an explicit return method.
But if you only have one line of code,
you could omit the return method, and
you could omit the braces.
So now, this is correct.
And so what I've done is at the very top
of the slide, I've created a function,
which when given a DOM element will return
an observable of all the mouse drags on
that DOM element.
And on the bottom half of the slide,
I'm consuming the mouse drags now and for
reaching over that observable that I've
created, and I'm consuming the data,
and I'm doing something with it.
In this case, moving the image around.
Does that make sense?